Update hr-cadences.md (#217)
mattermost/mattermost-handbook: operations/workplace/people/hr-cadences.md

Feedback themes will help drive HR priorities, communication and/or clarification efforts and even coaching opportunities for managers and leaders.

**Cadence** 

> The goal is monthly for managers and quarterly for non-managers. Your HR partner will schedule time with you via Google Calendar. This may change due to HR team bandwidth. However, every staff member is encouraged to schedule time with someone on HR if there is not an existing scheduled meeting or if there’s an urgent topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is monthly for managers and quarterly for non-managers. Your HR partner will schedule time with you via Google Calendar. This may change due to HR team bandwidth. However, every staff member is encouraged to schedule time with someone on HR even if there isn't an existing scheduled meeting or if there’s an urgent topic.
```

Manager listening sessions will happen once a month. In addition to the above topics, this is also an opportunity for people managers to unpack questions around people management challenges, concerns and/or best practices. This feedback will also help drive future Manager Training topics.

## Staff Enablement Survey

> Staff enablement data provides a benchmark understanding of how staff feel or don’t feel enabled in the workplace. This is also a predictor of satisfaction and business outcomes. Quantitative data is a starting point to gather qualitative data for customized action planning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Staff enablement data provides a benchmark understanding of the level of enablement felt by staff in the workplace. This is also a predictor of satisfaction and business outcomes. Quantitative data is a starting point to gather qualitative data for customized action planning.
```

> Mattermost uses Gallup’s 12 Engagement questions to assess how enabled staff at Mattermost feel. The [Gallup](https://q12.gallup.com/Help/en-us/Answers/164468) research indicates 12 of the biggest indicators of high-performing teams in terms of critical outcomes such as productivity, profitability, safety and recognition. We use all 12 questions because each  topics asked about are deeply important to the Mattermost  staff experience. We value high trust over micromanagement and want to continuously improve how we enable all staff to bring their best self to work. The bi-annual engagement survey helps HR, MLT and Managers focus on high impact initiatives that mean the most to the staff experience. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mattermost uses Gallup’s 12 Engagement questions to assess how enabled staff at Mattermost feel. The [Gallup](https://q12.gallup.com/Help/en-us/Answers/164468) research indicates 12 of the biggest indicators of high-performing teams in terms of critical outcomes such as productivity, profitability, safety, and recognition. We use all 12 questions because each topic is deeply important to the Mattermost  staff experience. 

We value high trust over micromanagement and want to continuously improve how we enable all staff to bring their best self to work. The bi-annual engagement survey helps HR, MLT, and Managers focus on high impact initiatives that mean the most to the staff experience. 
```

### Cadence

> * Every 6 months, March and September 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Every six months (in March and September).
```

> * [additional logistics can be found here](https://handbook.mattermost.com/operations/operations/company-cadence#staff-enablement-survey)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Additional logistics can be found here](https://handbook.mattermost.com/operations/operations/company-cadence#staff-enablement-survey).
```

> * Post-action planning at team and company level 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Post-action planning at team and company level.
```

### Past Surveys 

> * [March 2020 - Staff Engagement Survey](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bkUQOCvJyYX-695gpZI7SJal14AWefFx5fJQxTOJKlI/edit#slide=id.g730cbfe72a_0_9)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [March 2020 - Staff Engagement Survey](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bkUQOCvJyYX-695gpZI7SJal14AWefFx5fJQxTOJKlI/edit#slide=id.g730cbfe72a_0_9).
```

> For additional information on Gallup [see the Gallup website](https://www.gallup.com/corporate/212381/who-we-are.aspx). You can review the list of questions ahead of taking the survey. Each question is important to Mattermost as it relates to our leadership principles, remote teams and shared values of Trust, Growth and Iteration.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For additional information on Gallup [see the Gallup website](https://www.gallup.com/corporate/212381/who-we-are.aspx). You can review the list of questions ahead of taking the survey. Each question is important to Mattermost as it relates to our leadership principles, remote teams, and shared values of Trust, Growth, and Iteration.  
```

#### **Q1: I know what is expected of me at Mattermost.** 
 

> Role clarity and alignment is vital at any company. This is especially important for our remote teams and is a significant reason Mattermost uses a variety of methods to align expectations with individuals, within teams and across teams. This includes performance reviews to discuss expectations and give feedback, [AORs](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost/list-of-terms#aor) to help cross-team collaboration, project planning with clear [DRIs](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost/list-of-terms#dri) that create transparency on roles within project teams and QBRs that provide team and individual focus as it relates to Mattermost’s Mission and Vision. Role clarity requires a continuous dialogue with one’s Manager. In order to [earn](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) and keep [trust](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352), conversations around expectations are important to avoid misalignment of expectations which can cause frustration, productivity and performance issues. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Role clarity and alignment is vital at any company. This is especially important for our remote teams and is a significant reason Mattermost uses a variety of methods to align expectations with individuals, within teams and across teams. This includes performance reviews to discuss expectations and give feedback, [AORs](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost/list-of-terms#aor) to help cross-team collaboration, project planning with clear [DRIs](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost/list-of-terms#dri) that create transparency on roles within project teams and QBRs that provide team and individual focus as it relates to Mattermost’s Mission and Vision. Role clarity requires a continuous dialogue with one’s Manager. In order to [earn](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) and keep [trust](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352), conversations around expectations are important to avoid misalignment of expectations which can cause frustration, affect productivity, and result in performance issues. 
```

#### **Q2: I have the materials and equipment I need to do my work right.** 

> Mattermost encourages staff to [customize their home workspace](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/how-to-guides-for-staff/how-to-spend-company-money#equipment) to best fit individual needs. Beyond equipment and home office materials can include any resource that would help optimize productivity and minimize distractions. Tools can include things like: systems, hardware or internal documentation. There may not be a budget or resources available to approve every tool request but alternative or interim solutions should be a collaborative effort to [grow](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) our individual and team capabilities.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mattermost encourages staff to [customize their home workspace](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/how-to-guides-for-staff/how-to-spend-company-money#equipment) to best fit individual needs. Beyond equipment and home office this can include any resource that would help optimize productivity and minimize distractions. Tools can include things like: Systems, hardware, or internal documentation. There may not be a budget or resources available to approve every tool request but alternative or interim solutions should be a collaborative effort to [grow](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) our individual and team capabilities.   
```

#### **Q3: At Mattermost, I have the opportunity to do what I do best every day.** 

> Being a Destination Workplace means each person is both willing and enabled to bring your best self to work. Many factors can affect one’s willingness and enablement to do what you do best, like: internal motivation, workstyle, strengths, weaknesses, onboarding or internal training. When a Manager understands how each factor differs across a team they can [iterate](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) task assignments or adjust working groups to improve team performance and [elevate team standards](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) by leveraging individual strengths with intent. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Being a Destination Workplace means each person is both willing and enabled to bring your best self to work. Many factors can affect one’s willingness and enablement to do what you do best, like: internal motivation, work style, strengths, growth areas, onboarding, or internal training. When a Manager understands how each factor differs across a team they can [iterate](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) task assignments or adjust working groups to improve team performance and [elevate team standards](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) by leveraging individual strengths with intent. 
```

#### **Q4. In the last seven days, I have received recognition or praise for doing good work.** 

> Recognition preferences and expectations are different for every person and team. Appreciation and praise can be difficult to feel in a remote environment where physical indicators of celebration, like a high-five or the sound of a gong, aren’t easy to replicate. However, being remote, asynchronous communication is a life line and communicating recognition requires iteration and intent. It’s helpful to understand that recognition is a form of feedback that positively reinforces what success looks like. For example, Public recognition helps clarify what [Mattermost’s standards for success](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) are with a tangible example. [Slow is smooth, smooth is fast](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost/mindsets#slow-is-smooth-smooth-is-fast) works best when we are able to pause and show appreciation for good work in order to foster alignment for [future growth](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) at Mattermost. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recognition preferences and expectations are different for every person and team. Appreciation and praise can be difficult to feel in a remote environment where physical indicators of celebration, like a high-five or the sound of a gong, aren’t easy to replicate. However, being remote, asynchronous communication is a life line and communicating recognition requires iteration and intent. 

It’s helpful to understand that recognition is a form of feedback that positively reinforces what success looks like. For example, public recognition helps clarify what [Mattermost’s standards for success](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) are with a tangible example. [Slow is smooth, smooth is fast](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost/mindsets#slow-is-smooth-smooth-is-fast) works best when we are able to pause and show appreciation for good work in order to foster alignment for [future growth](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) at Mattermost. 
```

#### **Q5. My manager, or someone at Mattermost, seems to care about me as a person.** 

> Gallup’s research translates “caring about me” to mean “setting me up for success.” Although emphasis is always placed on someone’s Manager offering support, it is also the support of teams, peers and Mattermost that creates a welcoming sense of trust in an organization. When individuals, teams and cross-team working groups feel supported, there’s less hesitancy to innovate and [iterate](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) with autonomy and [ownership](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) and Mattermost, as a team, is able to be more productive. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gallup’s research translates “caring about me” to mean “setting me up for success.” Although emphasis is always placed on someone’s Manager offering support, it is also the support of teams, peers, and MLT that creates a welcoming sense of trust in an organization. When individuals, teams, and cross-team working groups feel supported, there’s less hesitancy to innovate and [iterate](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) with autonomy and [ownership](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) and Mattermost, as a team, is able to be more productive. 
```

#### **Q6. There is someone at Mattermost who encourages my development.** 

> Each person has a unique combination of knowledge, strengths and capabilities. Encouraging one’s development balances this understanding with mutual commitment and [self awareness](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) from manager and direct report determine what type of work or projects are viable opportunities to both leverage one’s talent and foster additional learning in order to [grow](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) in the role at Mattermost. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each person has a unique combination of knowledge, strengths, and capabilities. Encouraging one’s development balances this understanding with mutual commitment and [self awareness](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) from Manager and direct report determine what type of work or projects are viable opportunities to both leverage one’s talent and foster additional learning in order to [grow](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) in the role at Mattermost. 
```

#### **Q7. At Mattermost, my opinions seem to count.** 

> Improving how to enable staff to be part of the decisions that affect their work will improve asynchronous communication, encourage innovation, [ownership](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) and [iteration](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352). When opinions are asked for and listened to, people feel aligned to the issue and ownership of the solution. Even when a suggested solution is not the chosen solution, sharing context on the decision will help contextualize the complexity of an issue or highlight potential blindspots. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Improving how to enable staff to be part of the decisions that affect their work will improve asynchronous communication, encourage innovation, [ownership](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles), and [iteration](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352). 

When opinions are asked for, and listened to, people feel aligned with the issue and accept ownership of the solution. Even when a suggested solution is not the chosen solution, sharing context on the decision will help describe the complexity of an issue or highlight potential blindspots. 
```

#### **Q8. The mission or purpose of Mattermost makes me feel my job is important.** 

> Understanding how one’s work contributes to a larger mission is a cornerstone of engagement. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Understanding how one’s work contributes to a larger mission is a cornerstone of engagement. 
```

> When there is strong alignment with the Mission, [Mattermost Leadership Principles](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) and role expectations, individuals are able to self prioritize their work, [iterate](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) as needed, collaborate with impact and earn trust of their peers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When there is strong alignment with the Mission, [Mattermost Leadership Principles](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) and role expectations, individuals are able to self prioritize their work, [iterate](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) as needed, collaborate with impact, and earn the trust of their peers. 
```

#### **Q9. My associates or fellow staff are committed to doing quality work.** 

> High performers are motivated to continue high performance when they feel their peers and colleagues are similarly committed. Similarly, high performers can be motivated to not continue high performance when they feel their peers or colleagues are not similarly committed. Maintaining high-trust in a remote environment requires intent from every team member at Mattermost. We can not physically “see” someone’s commitment to work, and micromanagement doesn’t work with our [leadership principles](hhttps://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) or our culture of high-trust. To mitigate assumption-based thought, we want to focus on improving and communicating standards for asynchronous communications, transparent AORs and empathetic remote norms (e.g. response times, time zones) as part of Mattermost’s culture of high trust.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
High performers are motivated to continue maintaining a high bar when they feel their peers and colleagues are similarly committed. Similarly, high performers can be motivated to not continue maintaining their high performance when they feel their peers or colleagues are not similarly committed. 

Maintaining high trust in a remote environment requires intent from every team member at Mattermost. We can not physically “see” someone’s commitment to work, and micromanagement doesn’t work with our [leadership principles](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles) or our culture of high trust. 

To mitigate assumption-based thought, we want to focus on improving and communicating standards for asynchronous communications, transparent AORs, and empathetic remote norms (e.g. response times, time zones) as part of Mattermost’s culture of high trust.  
```

#### **Q10. I have a best friend at Mattermost.** 
Socializing is physically difficult in a remote environment but not impossible. However, this factor does prioritize our focus to foster connections across Mattermost. We have a great team of staff and contributors around the world and the opportunity to create connections across teams and within our global community is a Mattermost differentiator. 

The term “best friend” in this question is intended to mean quality of work relationships. When camaraderie exists within and across teams, issues are more likely to be solved with greater ease, clarity, speed and [trust](https://handbook.mattermost.com/company/about-mattermost#leadership-principles). When camaraderie is low, [high impact issues](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) or problems that require partnership are more likely to be avoided. 

#### **Q11. In the last six months, someone at Mattermost has talked to me about my progress.** 

> Performance reviews are completed 1-2 times a year, depending on the team. Individuals expect performance feedback at more frequent intervals but may not always ask for feedback directly. Giving and receiving feedback are often avoided because the topic is discomforting. Fostering the value of [iteration](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) depends on the willingness to objectively hear and share feedback in order to grow individually, as a team and at Mattermost. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performance reviews are completed once or twice a year, depending on the team's cadence. Individuals expect performance feedback at more frequent intervals but may not always ask for feedback directly. 

Giving and receiving feedback are often avoided because the topic is discomforting. Fostering the value of [iteration](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BDSaeW-M92gth_NM1vI23dtbFLBsYVIk/edit#slide=id.g6f3b66b1fb_0_352) depends on the willingness to objectively hear and share feedback in order to grow individually, as a team and at Mattermost. 
```

#### **Q12. This last year, I have had opportunities to grow at Mattermost.** 

> Mattermost is fast-paced and high trust and from a bird’s eye view there are seemingly multiple opportunities to learn, grow and progress. The balance is seeing these opportunities and matching to the individual characteristics of Q3 and Q7.  How to see the opportunities is an area we need to improve and make transparent so each person has access to what growth trajectories are available at Mattermost. The foundation of this begins with understanding [job levels](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kNsl7JUWDQ8MhWonys9dR3osrxEWYkKVIoECfFKSQzw/edit#gid=0). Understanding where you are today and what the next step may be improves transparency to opportunities. Matching your unique talent combination with work is a team effort between an individual, manager and Mattermost. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mattermost is fast-paced and high trust and from a bird’s eye view there are multiple opportunities to learn, grow, and progress. The balance is seeing these opportunities and matching them to the individual characteristics of Q3 and Q7. 

How to see the opportunities is an area we need to improve and make transparent so each person has access to what growth trajectories are available at Mattermost. The foundation of this begins with understanding [job levels](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kNsl7JUWDQ8MhWonys9dR3osrxEWYkKVIoECfFKSQzw/edit#gid=0). 

Understanding where you are today and what the next step may be improves transparency to opportunities. Matching your unique talent combination with work is a team effort between an individual, manager, and Mattermost. 
```

#### **Q13. How likely are you to recommend Mattermost as a place to work?** 

> Staff Net Promoter Score is a health index measuring overall engagement, happiness and loyalty. sNPS is a common indicator of attrition, both voluntary and involuntary. Understanding how Promoters, Detractors and Passives rate each category gives us, Mattermost, an opportunity to retain talent, improve performance and the staff experience. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Staff Net Promoter Score (SNPS) is a health index measuring overall engagement, happiness, and loyalty. SNPS is a common indicator of attrition, both voluntary and involuntary. Understanding how Promoters, Detractors, and Passives rate each category gives us, Mattermost, an opportunity to retain talent, improve performance, and enhance the staff experience. 
```

### Post-COM Survey Analysis

> After the survey analysis is presented at [COM](https://handbook.mattermost.com/operations/operations/company-cadence#customer-obsession-meeting-aka-com), HR will share Enablement Results with MLT as long as there are at least 5 submitted responses. The minimum response is 5 in order to preserve the anonymous nature of the survey. HR will work with MLT or the Team Lead to focus on relevant and actionable results based on the feedback. Next, MLT or Team Leads will share and discuss any next steps with the team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the survey analysis is presented at [COM](https://handbook.mattermost.com/operations/operations/company-cadence#customer-obsession-meeting-aka-com), HR will share Enablement Results with MLT as long as there are at least five submitted responses. The minimum response is five in order to preserve the anonymous nature of the survey. HR will work with MLT or the Team Lead to focus on relevant and actionable results based on the feedback. Next, MLT or Team Leads will share and discuss any next steps with the team.
```
